Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu has told a us talk show that
the ground offensive in Rafa is going
ahead he says civilians will be given
what he calls safe passage and moves
northwards he told ABC's this week
program that captives who are still
alive justify Israel's ongoing
War we're going to do it we're going to
get the remaining Hamas terrorist
battalions in Rafa which is the last
Bastion but we're going to do it and in
this I agree with the Americans uh we're
going to do it while providing safe
passage for the uh civilian population
so they can leave we are working out a
detailed plan to do so and that's what
we've done up to now we're not uh we're
not Cavalier about this this is part of
our war effort to get civilians out of
arm's way it's part of hamas's effort to
keep them In Harm's Way but we've so far
succeeded and we're going to succeed
again those who say that under no
circumstances should we enter Rafa are
basically saying lose the
war well in a moment we'll speak to
Hamas Salud who's in occupied East
Jerusalem but first let's go to shab
ranzi in Washington DC and sheab a
couple of days ago the White House was
saying that it would not support an
assault on Rafa without a plan for
civilians what message do the Israeli
Prime Minister have for the American
people
here well this was the message that they
have a plan and that plan is to evacuate
civilians North Netanyahu repeating and
he actually in fact he did two
interviews on American television today
that one and one with Fox News which
just completed about an hour ago a live
interview
where he said well look we've destroyed
so much effectively of the area north of
RFA that the Palestinians can move there
and then he kept repeating this phrase
over and over again Victory is Within
Reach so those were the two main
messages he was trying to get across to
the uh to the US population even as the
Biden Administration signals in various
phrases in in you know Biden calling
Biden calling the Israeli response and
Military operation over the top last
week and now an article on the
Washington Post published on Sunday
where Administration officials say the
Biden Administration is is closer to a
breach with prime minister Netanyahu
than ever before uh even as the the
Biden Administration briefs its friends
in the media that it's unhappy or it's
not actually going to necessarily do
anything given the US appears to be
quite uncomfortable with this move by by
Netanyahu what does that say about
American leverage and influence over the
Israeli Prime Minister at the
moment we know that America has that
leverage over the prime minister in fact
actually there was a a biography of Joe
Biden that just came out a few weeks
back which showed that in 2021 during
the bombardment of Gaza then Biden
picked up the phone to Netanyahu and
said all right we run out of we ran out
of
Runway and immediately the bombardment
stopped so Biden can use that leverage
but still does not want to use that
leverage or sees no reason to use that
leverage so instead what we're seeing is
more stories being planted in the media
about Joe Biden's unhappiness with
Netanyahu and the Israeli operation as
we get into the heat of the election
season this is what we heard at the end
of last year that the Biden
Administration basically gave a green
light to Israel to do whatever it wanted
but was concerned about the military
operations continuing into the heat of
the election season we're not there yet
but clearly the Biden Administration is
very concerned about swing States like
Michigan Arab American voters and so now
we're seeing more stories being planted
about the
unhappiness with the the Biden has for
Netanyahu even as that Leverage is not
not used it's very it's performative
soon at this stage we had we told that
Washington Post article that that phrase
that Biden used oh the reaction's been a
bit over the top I mean he's talking
about alleged genocide clearly it's a
bit over the top that's part of this new
tough language that counts as the tough
language that Biden is now employing in
a bid to you know as part as the White
House attempts to convince members of
its base that that Biden does have some
kind of heart and some kind of
opposition to genocide very interesting
indeed she had Ry life Us in Washington
DC well let's bring in ham Salud she's
live for us in occupied East Jerusalem
so H as Israel readies itself for this
we think potential attack on Rafa what's
going on politically inside
Israel a lot of turmoil within the
Israeli government there have been
constant disagreements about how the war
has has been prosecuted descent from the
very top from Israel's war cabinet all
the way to the Coalition and the
opposition remember on Friday the
Israeli Prime Minister had instructed
both the Army and the security
establishment to come up with some sort
of plan and the plan would be twofold
the first part would be on how they
could Evacuate the civilian population
out of raah and the second part would be
how to dismantle the remaining Hamas
battalions there the Israeli Prime
Minister says that there are around four
Hamas battalions still left in Rafa but
the question still on everyone's mind is
where are these 1.4 million Palestinians
supposed to go and when asked about it
the Israeli Prime Minister had said that
they're working on a detailed plan but
there's been no information whatsoever
as to how it is going to be executed the
Israeli Army Chief of Staff has repeated
that his troops are ready to go into ra
but they're waiting for an answer from
the government on how to evacuate the
Palestinians who are there because there
are simply too many people for some sort
of massive incursion intoa there have
been disagreements in Israel's war
cabinet for weeks now saying that
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu is not actually seeing
straight that those who feel there is a
total defeat of Hamas are actually not
being so honest and that coming from a
war Cabinet member himself so they're
been constant disagreements about what
to do next within the war within
Israel's government and now on the heels
of all of this International pressure
around the operation of going into ra it
seems that the Prime Minister himself is
adamant that that is simply going to
happen ham to stay with us because as
well as the potential push on Rafa have
there been other developments as well in
the occupied West Bank because the
Israeli newspaper haret has been
reporting that the government of
Benjamin Netanyahu is also pushing ahead
with a large illegal settlement in the
occupied West Bank haret says 650 homes
will be built just a few meters away
from Palestinian houses south of
occupied East Jerusalem farite Israeli
activists are reportedly involved in the
development um back to ham and occupied
East Jerusalem andam it appears that the
Israeli leadership is presiding over a
period of accelerated illegal settlement
building that's right our team has been
speaking to an NGO called IR amim they
are essentially monitoring legal
settlements and also human rights abuses
specifically in occupied East Jerusalem
and they're saying that the level at
which these settlements are being
Advanced is unprecedented since October
the 7th alone they say there were 17 new
plans for illegal settlements which
would be composed of around 8,000
housing units and four of those 17
plants have been approved so you're
looking at
3,700 housing units in illegal
settlements that have been approved in
occupied East Jerusalem alone now what
else is this NGO saying well they're
saying that it takes quite some time for
these settlements to actually be
constructed from the time a plan is
conceived to the time where Construction
and building actually begins there is so
much bureaucracy involved that it can
take upwards of 10 years but the
government here seems to be
fast-tracking it quite a bit and getting
involved politically and what else is
this NGO saying well since the War Began
they're saying that perhaps it's a
distraction for the rest of the public
for the International Community that
while the focus is on the war on Gaza
they are Expediting essentially these
settlements and remember this is
Israel's most right-wing government in
its history they are Advocates and
proponents for illegal settlements not
only in the occupying West Bank but in
occupied East Jerusalem and when the war
is over they've been advocating for
settlements in the Gaza Strip too
advocating for an occupation there
settlements are an extremely sensitive
topic because they encroach on
Palestinian land and they are IL legal
under international law but it seems
that the Israeli government is still
pushing forward with these moves hamda
many thanks hamda Salud and occupied
East Jerusalem